# NoiseUtils Library

## NoiseUtils

This library contains useful classes for creating and rendering **two-dimensional noise maps** containing coherent noise that was generated from the *libnoise library*.  These classes are used to create procedural textures and terrain height maps.

**NoiseUtils** is known to compile under Windows 2000 Service Pack 4 (using Microsoft Visual C++ 5.0) and under Gentoo Linux 10.0 (using gcc 3.3.4). It should be portable across all platforms that can compile *libnoise*.

This library contains the following classes:
- A *noise map* class: This class implements a two-dimensional array that stores floating-point values.  It's designed to store
coherent-noise values generated by a noise module.
- Several *noise-map builder* classes: Each of these classes fills a noise map with coherent-noise values generated by a noise module.  While filling a noise map, it iterates the coordinates of the input value along the surface of a specific mathematical object. Each of these classes implements a different mathematical object, such as a plane, a cylinder, or a sphere.
- An *image* class: This class implements a two-dimensional array that stores color values. 
- Several *image-renderer* classes: these classes render images given the contents of a noise map.  Each of these classes renders an image in a different way.

Contact *Jason* for questions about noiseutils.  The spam-resistant email address is jlbezigvins@gmzigail.com (For great email, take off every <a href=http://www.planettribes.com/allyourbase/story.shtml>zig</a>.)

## Note

The *noiseutils* files are modified by David de Lorenzo:

1. The `Image` class is renamed `NoiseImage` to avoid conflicts with other classes of the same name.

2. The comment lines `/// @mainpage ...` and `///@section ...` are deleted. (They are redondant with the *doxygen* sections)

3. Normal Map Bugfix: The `DestImage` was not initialized.
      in function `RendererNormalMap::Render()` add:

   ```cpp
   if (m_pDestImage) m_pDestImage->SetSize (width, height); // Added by DDL to create the Dest Image.
   ```

   ​	just after the line:

   ```cpp
   int height = m_pSourceNoiseMap->GetHeight();
   ```

   

4. Add logs in case of Ogre exception:
      in function `RendererNormalMap::Render()` add:

   ```c++
   DEBUG_LOG("*** ERROR : RendererNormalMap::Render() : Invalid Parameters");
   ```

      just before the line:

   ```c++
   throw noise::ExceptionInvalidParam();
   ```



